---
layout: default
title: read File 
date: 2013-02-04
comments: true
---


1.In the terminal go to your project directory, create a file named dict.rb using touch and open it in your editor. Create another file named dict.csv in the same directory and open it in the editor as well.

2.Add three lines to the dict.csv file where each file is a key value pair separated by a single comma (no spaces).  E.g:   
*yes,ja*  
*no,nein*   
Be sure to save the file.

3.Now in dict.rb read the contents of dict.csv and store them in a local variable contents. On the next line output that local variable using p.

  There is a method read on the class File that takes the filename as a single argument (a string). (Please do not use the Ruby CSV class that you might find googling for this.)

  Run ruby dict.rb in your terminal to confirm that it actually contains the contents of the file dict.csv as a single string.

4.Split that string into an array containing 3 lines and store this array in a local variable lines and output that array using p.

  Run the file and confirm that lines contains an array with 3 strings where each string is exactly one line from the original dict.csv file.  E.g:   
*\["yes,ja","no,nein"\]*   

5.Now iterate over the lines array and split each line at the comma. I.e. each line should be split into another array containing exactly two strings, one with the key and the other one with the value from that line. Store the results of this iteration into a local variable pairs and output it using p.

  Run the file and confirm that pairs now has a big array that contains 3 small arrays each containing two strings.  E.g:   
*\[\["yes,ja"\],\["no,nein"\]\]*   

6.Now find a way to transform this nested array (the pairs) into a Ruby hash and store it in a local variable dict. Output dict using p.

  There are different ways to do this and they are all valid.

  If you google for it and come up with a solution that uses the Hash class, square brackes and the star operator (that you might not know at this point), then that's cool. Programming often times just means to google for the right terms and copy/adjust other people's solutions, that's just as valid as anything else. If you would not be able to explain this solution to others then please try to come up with an alternative solution, too, though.

  **Hint:** there is an elegant solution using inject and a less elegant one using each. If you can figure out how to use inject you can consider yourself to be awesome, many Ruby newcomers (even if experienced with other languages) have issues getting it right at the beginning. The solution using each is just as good as long as you get the expected final result.

  Run the file and confirm that you now have a Ruby hash where the first term from each line in dict.csv is a key and the second term a value. E.g:   
*\{"yes" => "ja","no"=>"nein"\}*

###Bonus:

Extract the hash formatting piece of code from the file hash.rb from last week and put it into a method format_table. Cut and paste that method to a new file format_table.rb. Include it to both hash.rb and dict.rb using the Ruby directive include and make both files output their hashes as a formatted table using that method.

[link to gist](https://gist.github.com/svenfuchs/2dbe6cb210febec49674)